README.md, before:

# TestRail To XLSX

Get data from TestRail API and export to XLSX.

![1716766821511](image/README/1716766821511.png)

![1716814324626](image/README/1716814324626.png)

## Project installation

1. Install Node.js on PC
2. Install Visual Studio Code (VSC) and recommended extensions: Babel JavaScript, JavaScript (ES6), Code Runner, Office Viewer(Markdown Editor)
3. Clone git repository and open in VSC
4. Open terminal in VSC and run “npm install --save-dev” command
5. Now you can open Main.js file and run

## TestRail settings

1. Enable API on ADMINISTRATION - Site Settings - API page
2. Generate API key on My Settings - API KEYS page

## Project configs

### testrail.json

* baseURL - base url of TestRail in "domain.testrail.io" format
* login - login email for which apiKey was generated in TestRail
* apiKey - apiKey generated in TestRail

### report.json

Tab will be generated in XLSX report for every config.

* name - name of tab in XLSX report
* project_id - id of testrail project
* suite_id - id of testrail suite
* filters - every filter must start with "&" and define filtration value, e.g. "&is_deleted=0", you can apply many filters for the same field, e.g. "&priority_id=3,4" will include only test-cases with 3 and 4 priorities
* group_by - test-cases will be grouped by this field, set "group_by": false to skip it
* show_groups - displaing or hiding group names in the report
* sections_max_depth - displaying section name if its depth is less
* statistics - statistics from statistics.json which rules will be used for calculations

### xlsx.json

For adjustment of column width to its content:

* min_width is min column width
* max_width is max column width
* character_width is approximate width of 1 character that is used for calculation

Styles for heading, groups and sections cells:

* heading_style
* group_style
* section_style

There is ability to add custom colors for the columns with options. For example, for "custom_status" with "Draft", "Actual", "Need update", "Outdated" options you can set colors in the next way:

```
"custom_status":{
        "Draft": "fbbc04",
        "Actual": "34a853",
        "Need update": "4285f4",
        "Outdated": "cccccc"
    }
```



### statistics.json

- enabled - enable or disable statistics calculation
- tabName - name of the tab with statistics
- column - test case property that will be created for statistics
- columnName - name of additional column in every tab
- skipped_status - default value if no rule is applied
- rules is how test cases are grouped for calculating statistics

Example of statistics rules: statistics will be calculated for "Automated", "Can be automated" and "Not ready for automation" statuses. For "Automated" status only test-cases with "custom_automation_status": "Automated" and "custom_status": "Actual" are counted.

```
"rules": {
        "Automated": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Automated",
                "custom_status": "Actual"
            }
        ],
        "Can be automated": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Actual"
            }
        ],
        "Not ready for automation": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Draft"
            },
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Need update"
            }
        ]
    }
```

## Other

If you copy the result to other document, please pay attention to locale of both XLSX files. Formulas separator, dates format and numbers format can be different for them. Set the same locale for both files to fix any issues.

Commit message:

Separate toggles for summary and group statistics

README.md, after:

# TestRail To XLSX

Get data from TestRail API and export to XLSX.

![1716766821511](image/README/1716766821511.png)

![1716814324626](image/README/1716814324626.png)

## Project installation

1. Install Node.js on PC
2. Install Visual Studio Code (VSC) and recommended extensions: Babel JavaScript, JavaScript (ES6), Code Runner, Office Viewer(Markdown Editor)
3. Clone git repository and open in VSC
4. Open terminal in VSC and run “npm install --save-dev” command
5. Now you can open Main.js file and run

## TestRail settings

1. Enable API on ADMINISTRATION - Site Settings - API page
2. Generate API key on My Settings - API KEYS page

## Project configs

### testrail.json

* baseURL - base url of TestRail in "domain.testrail.io" format
* login - login email for which apiKey was generated in TestRail
* apiKey - apiKey generated in TestRail

### report.json

Tab will be generated in XLSX report for every config.

* name - name of tab in XLSX report
* project_id - id of testrail project
* suite_id - id of testrail suite
* filters - every filter must start with "&" and define filtration value, e.g. "&is_deleted=0", you can apply many filters for the same field, e.g. "&priority_id=3,4" will include only test-cases with 3 and 4 priorities
* group_by - test-cases will be grouped by this field, set "group_by": false to skip it
* show_groups - displaing or hiding group names in the report
* sections_max_depth - displaying section name if its depth is less
* statistics - statistics from statistics.json which rules will be used for calculations

### xlsx.json

For adjustment of column width to its content:

* min_width is min column width
* max_width is max column width
* character_width is approximate width of 1 character that is used for calculation

Styles for heading, groups and sections cells:

* heading_style
* group_style
* section_style

There is ability to add custom colors for the columns with options. For example, for "custom_status" with "Draft", "Actual", "Need update", "Outdated" options you can set colors in the next way:

```
"custom_status":{
        "Draft": "fbbc04",
        "Actual": "34a853",
        "Need update": "4285f4",
        "Outdated": "cccccc"
    }
```

### statistics.json

- summary_enabled - enable or disable summary statistics for all tabs
- group_enabled - enable or disable detailed statistics by group for every tabs
- tabName - name of the tab with statistics
- column - test case property that will be created for statistics
- columnName - name of additional column in every tab
- skipped_status - default value if no rule is applied
- rules is how test cases are grouped for calculating statistics

Example of statistics rules: statistics will be calculated for "Automated", "Can be automated" and "Not ready for automation" statuses. For "Automated" status only test-cases with "custom_automation_status": "Automated" and "custom_status": "Actual" are counted.

```
"rules": {
        "Automated": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Automated",
                "custom_status": "Actual"
            }
        ],
        "Can be automated": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Actual"
            }
        ],
        "Not ready for automation": [
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Draft"
            },
            {
                "custom_automation_status": "Not automated",
                "custom_status": "Need update"
            }
        ]
    }
```

## Other

If you copy the result to other document, please pay attention to locale of both XLSX files. Formulas separator, dates format and numbers format can be different for them. Set the same locale for both files to fix any issues.
